---
title: Crystal Factions - Patch Notes 1.6.1
layout: default
---

This is a big update, so I'll try keep it concise. The main change is around how Permanent cards exist in the game. These no longer start in your deck, and instead are on the battlefield from round 1. They now have conditions that must be met in order for you to use their abilities, and the upgraded abilities have a harder condition. This change was because Permanent cards not only saw little play, but when they were played at the beginning of the game they game way more value than if drawn towards the end. This change should allow the cards to be better balanced, but also help to give more options for players at the start, as well as when they have left over Production or Crystals.

## Core Mechanics

No changes to core rules in this version!

## Art and Visual Design

- Finished card art for Outer Rim Raiders

## Decks

The decks below with * are playable on [ScreenTop](https://screentop.gg/@Direside/crystal-factions) and are targeted at new players. The more advanced decks are still being balanced, but can be shared if you'd like to try them out.

- Aerial Destruction and Troopers* (Red)
- Drone Swarming and Shields* (Blue)
- Mercenary Bounce and Deep Mining* (Green)
- Infiltration and Corruption* (Purple)

## Faction Changes

### Outer Rime Raiders (Red)

1.6.0 was a strong showing for ORR and even after a few edits they consistently won early with an aggressive style. 
While this is great and intended, giving the other factions some room to breathe was needed to allow the game to be more 
dynamic and fun for everyone. While the faction took a couple of reductions, it will hopefully still play the same and
still keep things interesting with its aggressive style.

Mining Expedition took a reduction in crystal gain as you could consistently gain enough money to ignore the mining lane
and still be able to play your most powerful cards. This should be more of a trade-off now, but I'll be keeping an eye 
on it to make sure it's still usable.

Unit changes are to make the cards cheaper and a bit weaker to still allow for the aggressive style but relying on clever
use of abilities instead of raw attack numbers.

#### Changes

- Mining Expedition reduced from ~~3~~ -> 2 crystal gain at base level and 3 crystals if you control 5 or more Basic Troopers.
- Control Tower reduce ~~3~~ -> 2 Production and ~~6c~~ -> 5c cost reduction to match. The ability is now a choose one, letting you
pick if you want the Search or Return from Discard.
- Bombing Run, power reduction from ~~8/9/7~~ -> 6/7/6 and cost reduction from ~~10c~~ -> 9c.

### Cybernetic Collective (Blue)

Drone Swarm was having a bit of an identity crisis since it was removed from the cards. In general the number of drones 
at the end of the game for CC is about 5, and having multiple drones in a lane doesn't happen as often as you'd imagine.
Due to this, I'm reverting the swarming back to working for every drone in the lane, even if there is only 1. This strays
from the concept slightly, but does still get more powerful if you put multiple drones in a single lane, which is the core
idea.

There is also an order problem with Drone Swarm that you want the boosts before you use the ability on Strike Drone, but
after the ability on Drone Commander. For now, I've added text on both of the cards to explain that you can use it in the
most beneficial way.

Drone Commander was still not able to be played in a lane with Troopers very often. To help this synergy the 
card has had a big power and cost reduction, to allow it to be more often played alongside Troopers in the same turn, or
played with another drone to amplify its power.

Annihilator Drone has had a slight change to make it Disable instead of Destroy your own drones. I like the change thematically
and I also think it will mean you can use the card one turns where you aren't going to completely win, but still want to
use the ability.

Outside of Drones, the Shield Generator wasn't performing well as a Permanent for the faction. It was either really good
when you are playing defense, or completely useless if you are winning in the attack. It has been replaced by Material 
Replicator which can generate boosts or draw cards. This should help you keep up with the crystal generation from other 
factions (boosts on mining lane).

#### Changes

- Shield Generator, ~~Permanent~~ -> 1/1/1, 3c/1p. Deploy choose one: Shield 3 or add 1 boost to your Attack lane.
- Material Replicator, ~~1/1/1~~ -> Permanent. Cooldown on Deploy: Spend 1 production to add 2 boost to a lane, or draw 
a card
- Drone Commander, ~~6/6/5~~ -> 4/4/3, ~~9c/4p~~ -> 7c/3p.
- Energy Reflector Array, ~~5/6/6~~ -> 3/4/4.
- Annihilator Drone. Deploy: ~~Destroy~~ -> Disable or Discard any of your Drone cards from your hand or lanes to add 2 
boost per card to this lane.

### MMC (Green)

The main change here was to address the long game issue with MMC being able to stick around in a game by repairing constantly
with Repair Crew. To keep the idea of being able to re-enlist for multiple repairs, but make it actually a choice to play
or enlist, we are adding a cost to the repair ability.

#### Changes

- Repair Crew, Ability changes: ~~Repair 2~~ -> You may Pay 3 CTL to repair 2 HP.
- Mining Technician. Ability change: For each opponent, you may ~~Disable~~ -> Return a card in their Mining lane with 3 
power or less to their hand.

### Endracor Federation (Purple)

Endracor needed a bunch of help in the Permanents area. The biggest change is to the Recall ability. It was under-performing
on all cards except for the cheaper cards, because it would leave you with a huge production and crystal deficit after you
return a card to your hand. In order to address this, we tried multiple options but settled on a crystal refund to work
similar to Enlist.

Corrupt Policies is under some fine-tuning as well. Mostly around the ability to gain crystals being free, and not wanting
that to come online to early. Both that and the card draw have been brought down 1 corruption level.

#### Changes

- Recall. Ability changed: Return an Infiltration card to your hand and gain crystals equal to its production cost.
- Corrupt Policies. ~~3~~ -> 2+ Corruption Draw a card. ~~6~~ -> 5+ Corruption Gain 3 CTL.
- Master Plan, ~~5c/4p~~ -> 5c/3p, ~~3/4/4~~ -> 2/3/3. Deploy: Search 3. Aftermath: You may Discard the top card of your
faction deck, gain Corruption equal to half its production cost, rounded up.
