---
title: Crystal Factions - Patch Notes 1.6.2
layout: default
---

This update was about trying some new mechanics with the two factions that weren't sitting right.

## Core Mechanics

No changes to core rules in this version!

## Art and Visual Design

- Finished card art for Outer Rim Raiders

## Decks

The decks below with * are playable on [ScreenTop](https://screentop.gg/@Direside/crystal-factions) and are targeted at new players. The more advanced decks are still being balanced, but can be shared if you'd like to try them out.

- Aerial Destruction and Troopers* (Red)
- Drone Swarming and Shields* (Blue)
- Mercenary Bounce and Deep Mining* (Green)
- Infiltration and Corruption* (Purple)

## Faction Changes

### Outer Rime Raiders (Red)

No changes.

### Cybernetic Collective (Blue)

No changes

### MMC (Green)

Mercenaries are still a bit of a trap for new players (and veterans) because in general it's always best to play them
paying the full cost instead. This is because it's only a temporary increase in stats, so while you can use it to gain
enough crystals to deploy a big unit early, if you don't, it's almost always better to just play troopers instead.

#### Changes

- Long-term Contract. Once during Aftermath: If you have at least 1 Mercenary, add 1 crystal to this card. 
  Crystals on this card may be used at any time to pay for the ability costs on your cards.
- 

### Endracor Federation (Purple)

After still not quite hitting the mark. Recall has had another rework. It now  

#### Changes

- Recall. Ability changed: Return an Infiltration card and replay it for free. (Still pay the Production cost)
